---
layout: post
title: 1.3 Character Action Choices
tags: design
comments: on
---

Last time I talked about the underlying [changes to the simulation] and specifically how that impacted the implementation of the **Move Character** action. Those changes had more widespread effects, and today I am going to explain the **Character Action Choices** feature.<!--more-->

## Overview

With the new flexibility in the simulation code, I was able to expand how character actions resolve. Previously character actions were completely autonomous affairs. Actions only had a single path of execution so the most the player could do was see the status of the action.

In 1.3 some actions will let player choose what their character should do in a round. As character actions progress, the character doing the action will callout to attract the player's attention. The player has a small window of time to select from the available choices before the action round resolves.

In the cases where the player is not active (during fast forward, for example) or misses the action window, the character will perform a default choice.

## Action Choices

The choices available to a character are determined by the action being performed. Adding, changing, and removing these choices is a simply process of modifying a data file.

Besides the choices that are available inherently to an action, additional choices might be available depending on the relationship between the characters involved, traits and skills of the acting character, etc.

## Help Me Understand

Changing the way that actions are executed necessarily impacts how they are presented to the player. Most of the actions are currently explained in a dry and technical manner. I am making changes to both the text the player sees and to the UI elements for communicating while an action is unfolding and later in the Action History windows.

This type of detail is important to get right because a lot of the game could potentially take place while a player is not active watching. Therefore it is important to be able to review what has occured in order to understand it and make better choices for the future.

---

## Annex v2

To help explain how this system works, we will look at the Annex action.

The purpose of the Annex action is to take control of a neutral settlement - those not controlled by a dynasty - by paying them off with Coin. While the Annex action is taking place, the character can pursue different tactics to attempt to reduce how much Coin it will take to annex the settlement.

### **Convince** (Default)

    Attempt to reduce annexation cost by giving a flowery speech.
    Skill check against characters Leadership stat.
    
    Results:
        · Critical: Reduce cost by 50%
        · Success: Reduce cost by 30%
        · Failure: Increase cost by 25%

### **Threaten**

    Attempt to reduce annexation cost by threatening the settlement.
    Opposed skill check of character's War stat and the Resistance value of the settlement (Resistance value is determined by the ratio of the annexing character's Troop and the settlement's Population).

    Results:
        · Critical: Reduce cost by 50%
        · Success: Reduce cost by 30%
        · Failure: Increase cost by 25%

### **Impress**

    Attempt to reduce annexation cost by impressing the settlement.
    Use Dynasty power to reduce the cost by 30%

### **Accept**
  
    Accept the current Annex cost and end the action

### **Delay**
  
    Do nothing

---

We are still weeks out from 1.3 - mostly a lot of UI stuff to do - but in the meantime I have plenty of stuff to talk about. Next week I will go over the choices in available in some of the other character actions, and start to showcase the UI elements.

Thanks for reading, and see you next time.

---

[changes to the simulation]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link _posts/2019-06-13-Adjusting-the-Fealty-game-loop.md %}
